As an old consultative sales guy, there was a point where I needed something to help me remember the structure to use when talking to prospects and customers.  I learned a lot of good information and techniques through years of corporate sales training, but needed something quick and easy to reference before calls for prep.  So, I then sat down and gave thought to the information I was trying to get from customers and that’s when I came up with C.A.P.E.

    Company Goals                                 
    Approach
    Problems
    Execution

These were the four major criteria that I used for understanding my customers’ business and how to align with them to satisfy “needs” over “wants”.  

 

Today, as a Client Success Manager, I still use this methodology when speaking to my clients – especially if I’m speaking to them for the first time.  I wanted to share the outline below with the CSM Community because it’s one thing that has contributed to the success of any customer I’ve ever worked with or supported over the years, and I think we all could use a reminder of how to talk to a customer and gather good information from them.

 

Here’s how C.A.P.E. breaks down:

C – Company Goals:  These questions will focus on what your customer’s business is and what results they’re hoping to accomplish as a company.

Sample Questions:  (Note – open-ended questions are the most effective for this model, and will typically open with the words What, How or Why.)

    What does your company do?
    Tell me what your business does or focuses on?
    What are your business objectives?
    How do you prioritize those objectives/initiatives?
    What are your short-term business goals?
    How do those goals compare or contrast to your long-term goals? (note - prospect will tell you their long-term goals)
    What areas are you targeting for growth? (either geographically or product/service-wise)

 

A – Approach: These questions will focus on what your customer’s plans are for reaching their business goals and the opportunities used to help turn out the results.

Sample Questions:  (Note – open-ended questions are the most effective for this model, and will typically open with the words What, How or Why.)

    What drives your business?
    How do you plan to achieve those particular results?
    What strategies will be leveraged to help you complete your objectives?
    What technologies can you leverage to help you meet your business goals?
    What opportunities can you take advantage of when it comes to growing your business?

 

P – Problems: These questions will focus on what your customer’s business challenges are and how those challenges affect their business.

 

Sample Questions:  (Note – open-ended questions are the most effective for this model, and will typically open with the words What, How or Why.)

 

    What challenges do you face when it comes to achieving your business goals?
    Where are you having the most trouble regarding your business?
    How are these restraints affecting your business?

 

E – Execution: These questions will focus on what your customer’s level of execution is, the people involved (in the decision process), and what their commitment is to attaining their goals.

 

Sample Questions:  (Note – open-ended questions are the most effective for this model, and will typically open with the words Who, What, How or Why.)

 

    What processes do you currently have in place for meeting output goals?
    Who else in your company is involved in the process of making decisions?
    What is your commitment to successfully achieving your objective?

 

In conclusion, once you have obtained the information from these questions, you will be positioned well to understand where your customer’s real needs are and how to align the right service or solution.

So from now on when you’re on a call or in a meeting with your customer, put on your Consumption CAPE and become a Consumption Superhero!!! Fight churn, build trust and enable growth with your customers! 

 

